# PriceComparisonWebiste
Aim: To design a User Interface to teach addition and subtraction to children.  

Theory:   Of all the subjects children learn in primary school, Mathematics is arguably one of the most important. Learning Mathematics in primary school provides students with a good foundation not only in higher education, but also in the day-to-day activities of life. Engineering, analysts, and accountants - all these professions require an excellent foundation in mathematics. On the other hand, purchasing items in a grocery store or managing and dealing with time are some everyday examples of maths in the real world. Therefore, we need to rear our children from an early age to become proficient in maths.  Unfortunately, not many children enjoy maths. Many students struggle with numbers and end up dropping the subject in higher classes. One of the main reasons for this is an improper foundation. The reason for them forming an improper foundation is due to their lack of interest in maths. Most schools make children learn mathematics in a ways that leaves them disinterested. They use methods like rote learning to teach children multiplication and simply write sums on the blackboard, insisting that children solve them in the quickest time possible. Such methods fail to engage children. It is a known fact that children tend to retain more knowledge when it is fun and they are able to learn in an interactive manner. It is only when knowledge appeals to child that the child will imbibe it and retain it for a long time ahead. This is the key to helping children build strong foundations in subjects.

How does one make mathematics interesting? First and foremost, we appeal to what children like. It is common knowledge that children love bright and shiny objects. Colourful items attract their attention. Moreover, children like to be comfortable, therefore they prefer everyday objects that they are familiar with and which they psychologically associate with something fun. Moreover, children would love to learn some innovative ways to solve math problems rather than the typical straightforward way they are always taught, in order to retain their attention to the subject. Thus, there are two tasks - to capture the child’s attention and then maintain it.

The innovation of our project lies in the application of technological constructs to the paradigm of teaching mathematics which is the main aim of this study. We investigate the design and development of a system that makes maths appealing to younger kids.

User Interface 1 (UI1):  The user interface uses number of apples for the user to understand the concepts of addition and subtraction as taught in school. Filled apples represent apples to be added and hollow apples represent apples to be subtracted
Strengths:  The user interface is easy to understand for a child. It has apples like those present in student textbooks from which they study in school, so there exists familiarity.
Weaknesses: Colors may be too bright for the students and limited examples exist.

User Interface 2 (UI2): It focusses on mostly testing the user. The UI uses everyday shapes like circles to test the user’s mathematical concepts.
Strengths: Provides the users with audio feedback for their answers. Use of everyday objects such as fruits like apples helps the child relate to the explanation and understand it better.
Weaknesses: The “incoorect” and “correct” alerts provided by the UI maybe annoying  Analysis of existing UI  UI name	Aesthetically pleasing

Existing interfaces are good for a user as they contain good use of graphics and animations. Some of the UI contains drag and drop function with everyday images like apples. Some of the UI gives points to the user on correct answer and the score will be displayed when the user gets out. All the UI studied by us can be easily understood by the children’s. The drawback of existing UI is that it may not be precise when the users select wrong answer. The fonts on some UI studied are small and are not clearly visible. The same is with buttons as well. Existing systems use objects instead of digits to help children relate to mathematics problem. They use animations as well in order to retain the child’s attention. Some systems use hints as well in case a child gets stuck while solving a problem. One major problem with existing UI is that they lack feedback mechanisms. They fail to provide the correct answer to the child, thus leaving the child confused.
Our Interface highlights the above issues and incorporates its solution in the user interface.

Designed Interface: Our interface contains two modes: learning and testing. Learning mode: The learning mode contains user interfaces to help user learn addition and subtraction. The user can look at the apples that are displayed in the question and relate them to the apples in the answer Testing mode: The user interface will generate random input to the user which contains the quantity of circles and the user needs to press the correct answer. If the answer is right a “correct” alert will be displayed. And if the answer is wrong an “incorrect” alert will be displayed. The user interface makes use of decent graphics and a good animations. The fonts and buttons are of large size visible to users. The user interface contains less number of animations hence loads faster.

Conclusion: We studied existing user interfaces and identified their strengths and weaknesses to design our own interface. The strengths helped us to model our system and the knowledge about their weaknesses enabled us to improve the existing system.
